Adding new MCP Section (#131)
kluster-ai/docs: get-started/mcp/self-hosted/clients.md

---
title: Clients
description: Configure kluster.ai's example MCP server with Claude Desktop, VS Code, and other MCP-compatible platforms.
---

# Clients

Configure kluster.ai's Self-hosted MCP server with compatible clients. 

## Claude Desktop

Full MCP support with automatic tool selection and document parsing.

> ### Docker (Recommended)

Reviewer: This approach should be followed in the other sections plz

> 1. **Build the MCP server**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the MCP server: Clone the GitHub repository and use Docker to build the server.
```

Reviewer: Example for other numbered lists

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kluster-ai/verify-mcp
   cd verify-mcp
   docker build -t kluster-verify-mcp .
   ```

> 2. **Configure Claude Desktop**:
>    
>    Edit your configuration file:
> 
>    - **macOS**: `~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`
>    - **Windows**: `%APPDATA%/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Configure Claude desktop: Edit your configuration file located in the following directories.
   
    === "macOS"

        ```
        ~/Library/Application Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
        ```

    === "Windows"

        ```
        %APPDATA%/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json
```

      "password": true
    }
  ],
  "servers": {
    "kluster-verify": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "docker",
      "args": [
        "run",
        "--rm",
        "--interactive",
        "kluster-verify-mcp",
        "--api-key",
        "${input:kluster-api-key}"
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

#### Node.js

For development or when Docker isn't available:

1. **Build the MCP server** (if not already built):
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/kluster-ai/verify-mcp
   cd verify-mcp
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

2. **Create `.vscode/mcp.json`** in your workspace root:

```json
{
  "inputs": [
    {
      "type": "promptString",
      "id": "kluster-api-key",
      "description": "kluster.ai API Key",
      "password": true
    }
  ],
  "servers": {
    "kluster-verify": {
      "type": "stdio",
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["./dist/index.js"],
      "cwd": "/path/to/verify-mcp",
      "env": {
        "KLUSTER_API_KEY": "${input:kluster-api-key}"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

!!! tip "Alternative Setup"
    Run `MCP: Add Server` from the Command Palette and choose `Workspace Settings`. Restart VS Code to activate the integration.

> ## SSE Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## SSE server
```

> For platforms that don't support native MCP but need HTTP endpoints, the verify-mcp repository includes an SSE (Server-Sent Events) server that provides standard HTTP API access to the verification tools.

Reviewer: This is a great example of a short and concise introductory paragraph

> ### SSE Server Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SSE server setup
```

1. **Start the SSE server**:

>    ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   ```bash
```

Reviewer: I'm unsure about using bolds this numbered list tbh

   git clone https://github.com/kluster-ai/verify-mcp
   cd verify-mcp
   npm run sse:start -- --api-key YOUR_KLUSTER_AI_API_KEY --port 3001
   ```

2. **Server runs on**: `http://localhost:3001` (default port).

> ### Available Endpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Available endpoints
```

> - **Tools List**: `GET http://localhost:3001/tools`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following endpoints are available:

- **Tools list**: `GET http://localhost:3001/tools`
```

> - **Health Check**: `GET http://localhost:3001/health`
> - **SSE Connection**: `GET http://localhost:3001/sse`
> - **Verify Tool**: `POST http://localhost:3001/tools/verify`
> - **Verify Document Tool**: `POST http://localhost:3001/tools/verify_document`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Health check**: `GET http://localhost:3001/health`
- **SSE connection**: `GET http://localhost:3001/sse`
- **Verify tool**: `POST http://localhost:3001/tools/verify`
- **Verify document tool**: `POST http://localhost:3001/tools/verify_document`
```

> ### Request Format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Request format
```

> **Verify Tool**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Verify tool**:
```

Reviewer: And add something, it feels too empty

```json
{
  "claim": "Statement to verify",
  "return_search_results": true
}
```

> **Verify Document Tool**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Verify document tool**:
```

Reviewer: Same comment on adding some text about the tool (what does it do?)

```json
{
  "claim": "This document says X",
  "document_content": "Full document text content...",
  "return_search_results": true
}
```

> **Response:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Response:**
```

Reviewer: Add some text "what are you expecting in the response?"

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "result": {
    "claim": "The Eiffel Tower is located in Rome",
    "is_hallucination": true,
    "explanation": "The response provides a wrong location for the Eiffel Tower...",
    "usage": {
      "completion_tokens": 343,
      "prompt_tokens": 939,
      "total_tokens": 1282
    },
    "search_results": []
  },
  "timestamp": "2025-06-11T10:30:00.000Z"
}
```

> ### Configuration Options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuration options
```

- `--api-key`: Your kluster.ai API key (or use `KLUSTER_API_KEY` env var)
- `--base-url`: kluster.ai base URL (default: `https://api.kluster.ai/v1`)
- `--port`: HTTP server port (default: `3001`)

> ### Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Usage example
```

```bash
# Test verify tool
curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/tools/verify \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{"claim": "The Earth is flat", "return_search_results": true}'

# Check server health
curl http://localhost:3001/health
```

!!! info "Workflow Integrations"
    For platforms like Dify, n8n, and Zapier that use HTTP requests, see [Workflow Integrations](/get-started/verify/reliability/workflow-integrations/){target=\_blank}.

> ## Additional Resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional resources
```

> - **Quick Start**: Get running in [five minutes](/get-started/mcp/self-hosted/quick-start/){target=\_self}.
> - **Tools Reference**: Detailed [parameter documentation](/get-started/mcp/self-hosted/tools/){target=\_self}.
> - **Workflow Integrations**: HTTP-based [workflow templates](/get-started/verify/reliability/workflow-integrations/){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Quick start**: Get running in [five minutes](/get-started/mcp/self-hosted/quick-start/){target=\_self}.
- **Tools reference**: Detailed [parameter documentation](/get-started/mcp/self-hosted/tools/){target=\_self}.
- **Workflow integrations**: HTTP-based [workflow templates](/get-started/verify/reliability/workflow-integrations/){target=\_blank}.
```
